<h1> README </h1>

<p> This repository includes sample test data and codes of paper <b> Heuristic interpretation as rational inference: A computational model of the N400 and P600 in language processing </b>. </p>

<h4> List of Files </h4>

  <li> noisy_channel.py -- the code for calculating n400 and p600 elicited by a given stimuli </li>
  
  <li> stats_analysis.R -- the code of linear mixed effect models to run statistical tests for simulated ERP effect across nine experiments </li>
  
  <li> test_input.csv -- sample input file for noisy_channel.py </li>
  
  <li> test_output.csv -- sample output file generated by noisy_channel.py </li>

<h4> Install required packages:</h4>
  <li> torch </li> 
  <li> pytorch_pretrained_bert </li>
  <li> sentence_transformers </li>
  <li> fastDamerauLevenshtein </li>
  
<h4> Run the noisy_channel.py as follows: </h4>
    
    python3 noisy_channel.py -i <input_filename> -o <output_filename>

<li> The input file should be a .csv file with at least four columns: Item, Condition, Literal, Alternative. See 'test_input.csv' for detailed format </li>

<li> The output file should be specified as a .csv file. See 'test_output.csv' for more details. </li>

<h4> Access to experimental stimuli </h4>
<p> To access experimental stimuli, please contact the author(s) or check supplementary materials of the listed papers. </p>
<li> reversal-1 (available as supplementary materials): Chow, W. Y., Smith, C., Lau, E., & Phillips, C. (2016). A “bag-of-arguments” mechanism for initial verb predictions. <i> Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, 31</i>(5), 577-596. </li>
<li> reversal-2 (check with authors): Ehrenhofer, L., Lau, E., & Phillips, C. (2019). A possible cure for “N400 blindness” to role reversal anomalies in sentence comprehension. <i>This is an unpublished manuscript available at the following link: <a href = "http://www.colinphillips.net/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/ehrenhofer_lau_phillips_20190318">[PDF]</a>.</i>  </li>
<li> animacy-1 (available as supplementary materials): Kim, A., & Osterhout, L. (2005). The independence of combinatory semantic processing: Evidence from event-related potentials. <i>Journal of memory and language, 52</i>(2), 205-225. </li>
<li> animacy-2 (available as supplementary materials): Kim, A., & Osterhout, L. (2005). The independence of combinatory semantic processing: Evidence from event-related potentials. <i>Journal of memory and language, 52</i>(2), 205-225.  </li>
<li> animacy-3 (check with authors): Kuperberg, G. R., Choi, A., Cohn, N., Paczynski, M., & Jackendoff, R. (2010). Electrophysiological correlates of complement coercion. <i> Journal of cognitive neuroscience, 22</i>(12), 2685-2701.</li>
<li> substitution-1 (available as supplementary materials): Chow, W. Y., Smith, C., Lau, E., & Phillips, C. (2016). A “bag-of-arguments” mechanism for initial verb predictions. Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, 31(5), 577-596. </li>
<li> substitution-2 (available as supplementary materials): Chow, W. Y., Smith, C., Lau, E., & Phillips, C. (2016). A “bag-of-arguments” mechanism for initial verb predictions. Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, 31(5), 577-596.</li>
<li> substitution-3 (available as supplementary materials): Chow, W. Y., Smith, C., Lau, E., & Phillips, C. (2016). A “bag-of-arguments” mechanism for initial verb predictions. Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, 31(5), 577-596. </li>
